Add prediction market strategy guide (#76)
zeitgeistpm/documentation: docs/learn/betting_strategy.md

---
id: betting-strategy
title: Betting Strategies
---

# Betting Strategies

What follows is a short introduction to the basic strategies when dealing with
prediction markets. It is by no means a complete guide.

> Recall that the asset prices in prediction markets as used to form a prediction
> of future events, and the right AMMs are _proper_ in the sense that they

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recall that the asset prices in prediction markets are used to form a prediction
of future events, and the right AMMs are _proper_ in the sense that they
```

incentivize the traders (which are in this context often referred to as
_informants_) to change the prices so that they reflect their beliefs.

Before you become an informant and expose yourself to a prediction market, you
need a _belief_. This belief could be anything from "$A$ is definitely going to
occur" or "$A$ is _not_ going to occur with a probability of 80%" to "The

> following probability distribution is correct", etc.

Reviewer: I have to highlight that this is for me the most interesting part of prediction markets, because prediction markets allow you to reconsider your decisions looking at probabilities made by market rules.

this buy is that the price of LONG increases, as does the value predicted by the
scalar market, reflecting that the informant has provided information to the
market. Since buying LONG is equivalent to selling/shorting SHORT, if you
already own SHORT tokens, you can sell SHORT tokens in this situation instead of
buying more LONG tokens.

Similarly, the profit of buying one unit of SHORT at the price of $p$ is
$(v - w) / (b - a)$, so a reasonable informant buys SHORT if they believe the
prediction is too high.

If $w$ lies outside of the scalar range $[a, b]$, then just assume that $w = a$
if $w < a$ or $w = b$ if $w > b$ and apply the system above.

## Providing Liquidity

Trades on prediction markets shift the price of the assets. Buying (resp.
selling) an outcome asset increases (resp. decreases) its price and decreases
(resp. increases) the prices of the other outcome assets. By buying (resp.
selling) you bet that the probability of the outcome is higher (resp. lower)
than currently predicted by the market. But how can you expose yourself to the
market if you think that the prices are correct? This is where providing
liquidity comes into play.

> The liquidity of a market is important when it comes to creating accurate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The liquidity of a market is important for creating accurate
```

Author: What's the problem here?

Reviewer: just a better language suggested by chatgpt

Author: 7d331db36244dfa97b4c3b6ef6ced64f94700951

And that's the only thing the fella found objectionable...? 🍉

Reviewer: Seems like you are a genius.

As an extreme example, imagine the informants are buying out a token which the
LPs know to be incorrect, even at prices close to 1$. The LPs receive fees and
keep the profits made from selling the incorrect outcome tokens, which will be
worthless after the market has resolved. But they also kept the correct outcome
tokens (their initial investment), giving them a considerable profit.
Conversely, if there's an information shock and the informants are able to
conclude which outcome the market will resolve to, they will buy all of these
tokens from the pool and leave the LPs holding bags of incorrect (this is,
worthless) outcome tokens.

In particular, providing liquidity is just as risky as trading on a market. In
case of an _information shock_, you stand to lose your entire position (for
example, if the outcome of the event is revealed before the market closes). When
the LPs take a loss to the informants, this may be explained by thinking of the
liquidity providers' losses as payment for the informants' services.

Increasing the liquidity of a pool by adding tokens does not change any of the
prices, but it has the effect of making it harder for traders to move the

> prices. This is sometimes describes by saying that the market's thickness is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prices. This is sometimes described by saying that the market's thickness is
```

increased. As a result, traders as able to take greater risks by opening larger
positions, incentivizing them more to give up what they know about future
events. But from the LPs perspective, this is also a good thing, as it gives the
informants more rope. Thus, providing liquidity can be thought of increasing
your position in your bet against the market.

> So, users should provide liquidity when the spot prices are at the level that
> they should be at according to their prediction. The traders then pay money to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, users should provide liquidity when the spot prices are at the level that
they should be according to their prediction. The traders then pay money to
```

Author: No - that's correct the way it is.

Reviewer: just a correction by chatgpt

receive outcome tokens and shift the prediction to what they believe to be the
correct probability distribution. If they get it right, the liquidity provider

> will incur a loss. But if the LPs initial prediction is correct, then their
> expected profit is non-negative (this is a hard calculation), and the farther
> the informants' probability distribution diverges from the LPs prediction and
> the more market noise that occurs while the price moves from the initial to the
> final prediction, the higher the LPs expected profit. Even if the final

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will incur a loss. But if the LPs initial prediction is correct, then their
expected profit is non-negative (this is a hard calculation), and the farther
the informants' probability distribution diverges from the LPs prediction and
the more market noise that occurs while the price moves from the initial to the
final prediction, the higher the LPs expected profit. Even if the final
```

Can you split this long sentence?

Reviewer: Example:

    If the LPs initial prediction is correct, their expected profit is non-negative.
    Calculating this profit can be complex.
    The informants' probability distribution might diverge from the LPs prediction.
    Market noise can also occur.
    Such noise happens as the price transitions from its initial to final prediction.
    Both these factors can increase the LPs expected profit.

Author: 5bfdd9be3c7003c218717965beed81b3b651f43b

prediction is equal to the initial prediction, the LPs will still have collected
fees. In particular, when you create a pool, you should always set the initial
prices according to the probabilities that you predict.

By withdrawing some of their liquidity, on the other hand, an LP removes funds
from their bet against the market. They might do this to take profits (including
swap fees) or because they have lost faith in their prediction.

## Minimizing Losses When Gathering Information

Roughly speaking, there are two motivations for creating a market or providing
liquidity. One is to create a market that allows you to bet against the
informants that are active on Zeitgeist, as discussed above. This can be
profitable if the liquidity providers have information which gives them an
advantage over the traders.

> The other is to gather information from the traders. This is the exact reversal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other motivation is to gather information from the traders. This is the exact reversal
```
